The Project Gutenberg eBook of Polite bunny, by Laura Rountree Smith

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Polite bunny

Author: Laura Rountree Smith

Illustrator: Penny Ross

Release Date: April 7, 2023 [eBook #70490]

Language: English

Produced by: Bob Taylor, Charlene Taylor and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
             produced from images generously made available by The
             Internet Archive/American Libraries.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK POLITE BUNNY ***





  Transcriber’s Note
  Italic text displayed as: _italic_




[Illustration: Polite Bunny]




[Illustration:

  POLITE BUNNY

  _by
  Laura Rountree Smith_

  _Illustrations
  by
  Penny Ross_


  C. H. VANVLIET CO.
  CHICAGO
]




  Copyright 1922
  C. H. Van Vliet Co.
  Chicago

  Printed in United States of America




CONTENTS


  Chapter 1.      A Letter From Aunt Etiquette

  Chapter 2.      Pretty Bunny’s Journey

  Chapter 3.      The Bed-Room Bunny

  Chapter 4.      Manners At Table

  Chapter 5.      Manners In School

  Chapter 6.      Shopping Manners

  Chapter 7.      Street Manners

  Chapter 8.      An On-Time Tale

  Chapter 9.      A Pick-It-Up Tale

  Chapter 10.     Company Manners




List of Color Illustrations.


  Polite Bunny                                          (Frontispiece)

  There Stood Homeless, Happy, Heedless, and
  Healthy Bunny                                                     56

  They Had Ice Cream and Cake                                       96

  “Here I Am, the Good Luck Bunny.”                                120




POLITE BUNNY

[Illustration: two bunnies]




CHAPTER I.

A LETTER FROM AUNT ETIQUETTE


    This is the tale of Pretty Bunny,
    And though her story is very funny,
    To read it you will not regret
    When you meet old Aunt Etiquette!

Pretty Bunny Manners lived with Old Father and Mother Bun, in a
little wee house in the woods.

As soon as she woke one morning she called to her brother, Healthy
Bunny,

    “Pretty Bunny gives fair warning,
    She will always call, ‘Good morning’.”

Healthy Bunny often forgot to say “Good morning,” and be polite, so
Pretty Bunny continued, “I will make up a ‘Good Morning Song’,” so
she wrote on a card some words for Healthy Bunny to learn, and soon
they sang to the tune of “Twinkle Little Star,”

    “Say ‘Good Morning’ when you wake,
    Be polite, make no mistake,
    And when friends you chance to meet,
    Say ‘Good Morning’ on the street.”

They took so long learning the song that Old Father Bun cried,

    “Hurry your dressing, I don’t like to scold,
    But your coffee will all be cold.”

Old Mother Bun said,

    “Hurry up, Bunnies, as like as not,
    Your oat-meal will get too hot.”

The Bunnies laughed and,

    Hippety-hop with never a care,
    They came dancing down the stairs.

They said ‘Good Morning’ to Old Father and Mother Bun and began to
eat breakfast.

At this very minute the Postman came “pitter, patter, rap-a-tap,” and
left some letters in the mail-box; among them was a certain pink
envelope addressed to Old Father Bun.

Pretty Bunny went to get the letters and came dancing in, handing
them to Old Father Bun.

As luck would have it, Old Father Bun took up the pink envelope first
and looked at it closely through his horn-rimmed spectacles.

He said,

    “This handwriting I’ve seen before,
    Two or four times, six or more.”

Old Mother Bun remarked, as he passed her the letter,

    “Whom can it be from, how can we tell?
    I think I know that handwriting well.”

Healthy Bunny got up and peeped over her shoulder, saying,

    “This letter’s addressed to Father Bun;
    It was not meant for every one.”

Pretty Bunny asked politely,

    “Let’s open the letter, then we’ll see
    What it contains of mystery.”

Old Mother Bun said,

    “Surely, this little Bunny is wise;
    The letter may have in it a surprise.”

Old Father Bun took a knife, slit open the envelope and looked at
once at the end of the sheet to see whom it was from. It was signed,
“Bunny Etiquette.” The letter read,

  “Bunnyville, March 9th, 1921.

Dear Brother Bun:

It is chilly this spring and the wind blows round my cottage, and I
need some one to bring in wood and water and cheer me up.

I am writing to ask if you could spare Pretty Bunny to come and
make me a visit. I am lonesome and I often think I can hear the
“pitter-patter” of little feet on the stairs.

[Illustration: young bunny reading to parents]

I am sending by express a warm cap and pair of mittens for each of
the Bunnies.

Write me soon. With kind regards to Old Mother Bun,

Your affectionate sister,

  Edna Etiquette.”

Pretty Bunny said, “May I go, Mother? May I go, Father? May I start
at once?”

Healthy Bunny said, “May I go, too? May I go, too?”

Pretty Bunny turned to him and said,

    “Healthy Bunny, it is not polite
    Your own self ever to invite.”

Healthy Bunny hung his head, for sure enough, Aunt Etiquette had only
asked Pretty Bunny to come for a visit.

Pretty Bunny then said again, “Oh Father and Mother, may I please go?”

To this Old Father Bun replied,

    “You very seldom need to tease,
    When you use that small word ‘PLEASE.’”

So it was decided that Pretty Bunny should go and visit Aunt
Etiquette next week, and such a hurrying and scurrying as there was
to get ready!

Up in the garret they went and brought down Old Father Bun’s suit
case and began to pack it full of clothes for Pretty Bunny. They
never once imagined that at that very minute, up in another garret,
another Bunny was packing a suit case that looked exactly like this
one.

Healthy Bunny looked sad for he wanted to go too.

Suddenly, without any warning, Old Father Bun clapped his paws and
shouted,

    “I think of little things like these,
    We should reply, if you please.”

Sure enough, at the end of Aunt Etiquette’s letter they found the
letters, “R. S. V. P.”

[Illustration: two bunnies]

While these letters were usually put only on a formal invitation to
a party, Aunt Etiquette had used them just for fun to see if Pretty
Bunny would know that they stood for French words meaning, “Reply, if
you please.”

Now, who was going to write the letter in reply?

    Said Old Father Bun, “Don’t you think we’d better
    Sit right down to answer this kind letter?”

Then he went off in his cozy corner to smoke.

    Said Old Mother Bun, “It makes me sigh,
    Every letter really needs a reply.”

Then she went off to make apple dumplings!

Healthy Bunny said,

    “I hope some one will not forget
    To write to Old Aunt Etiquette.”

Then he went out to take exercise and Pretty Bunny was left to answer
the letter, of course.

She drew up a stool beside Old Father Bun and said,

    “I will write the answer now, to-day,
    But, Old Father Bun, what shall I say?”

Old Father Bun smoked a while in silence collecting his thoughts and
then replied,

    “Pretty Bunny, now, let us hope
    You know how to address an envelope.”

Pretty Bunny did not know, for she had never addressed an envelope in
all her life.

Said Old Father Bun kindly,

    “Pretty Bunny, notice, as you’re bright,
    Address each line farther to the right.”

When the envelope was addressed it looked like this:

  Miss Edna Etiquette,
  106 Wood Avenue,
  Bunnyville,
  Wisconsin.

Old Father Bun said,

    “Put a comma after each line but one;
    Place a period then when you are done.”

Pretty Bunny said,

    “Father Bun, had I not better
    Buy a stamp to carry the letter?”

Old Father Bun looked in his coat pocket and after quite a search
found a postage stamp. He remarked,

    “Right side up you will agree,
    On the right hand corner a stamp you see.”

Now, do you know Pretty Bunny put the stamp on the right hand corner
of the envelope, but she put it on the lower right hand corner,
instead of on the upper right hand corner, by mistake, and so she had
to soak off the stamp and paste it later in its proper place.

She was now ready to write her letter.

    Old Father Bun said, “Now, I guess,
    At the top, to the right, put your address.”

So Pretty Bunny wrote,

  “Woodville, Wisconsin,
  March 10th, 1921.

  My dear Aunt Etiquette,

We received your letter with its kind invitation and Mother and
Father say I may go to visit you soon.

I can hardly wait for the time to come, and Healthy Bunny and I are
anxious to receive the pretty things you are sending us.

Father Bunny says he will bring me to your home on Friday.

I hope you are real well, and I will be very happy to come and keep
you company and do any errands I can for you.

  Your loving niece,
  Pretty Bunny.

P. S. I wonder if you really did hear ‘pitter, patter’ of little feet
on the stairs, or could it have been what we call ‘imagination’?”

Old Father Bun said this was a very good letter for it answered Aunt
Etiquette’s questions and told her what she wanted to know.

Old Father Bun had just finished his pipe when Old Mother Bun called,

    “Dinner is ready for every one;
    My dumplings, too, are exactly done.”

Pretty Bunny went out to call Healthy Bunny and just then the
expressman came with the caps and mittens.

Of course, the Bunnies had to try them on at once.

    Mother Bun said, “I don’t mean to scold,
    But my dinner will all get cold.”

She might have added that it shows very bad manners to be late to
meals if we can possibly help it.

The Bunnies took off their new things and came to dinner. Said Pretty
Bunny,

    “Excuse us, Mother, we just had to wait;
    To dinner we do not mean to be late.”

That night after they had all gone to bed, Pretty Bunny began to
wonder about the “pitter, patter” of foot-steps on Aunt Etiquette’s
stair-case.

[Illustration: two bunnies in bed]

She wondered if there really was another Bunny in the house.

Said the Old Family Clock in reply,

    “I knew once, but I forget,
    I lived long ago with Aunt Etiquette.”

Pretty Bunny crept out of bed and pressed her face close to the Old
Family Clock and whispered,

    “I’m afraid I’ll be lonesome, don’t you see,
    Without a young Bunny for company;
    You see, I really truly care
    If a Bunnie travels on the stairs.”

The Old Family Clock ticked in the usual way for some time and then
sang,

    “I knew once, but I’ve forgot,
    As like as not, as like as not.”




CHAPTER II.

PRETTY BUNNY’S JOURNEY


    Pretty Bunny should refrain
    From eating peanuts on the train;
    She should not stare at any one,
    So says good Old Father Bun.

The day for the journey came at last and Old Father Bun and Pretty
Bunny waved their paws and cried,

    “Good bye, good bye, we are happy, you know;
    Good bye, good bye, on a journey we go.”

They went briskly along until they came to town, and stood on the
right side of the street watching for a street car.

Pretty Bunny was so excited, she waved her red pocket handkerchief
with the white spots in it at the street car conductor, and Old
Father Bun said he was surprised to find she had such poor manners,
but as she had never seen a street car before, of course, she did not
know how to behave.

What a crowded car it was!

Old Father Bun said, “Wait ’till the car stops to get on board.” He
was particular to have the fare ready so the conductor did not have
to wait. He told Pretty Bunny, in some street cars you had to pay as
you enter, and in some the conductor came to get the fares.

Pretty Bunny began to stare at the passengers for they were so
interesting, but Old Father Bun remarked quietly,

    “Good manners help us everywhere,
    And one should never rudely stare.”

One passenger in particular interested Pretty Bunny.

He sat beside her and began to talk in a most familiar manner. He
said his name was Bunny Brag, and he was going on a long journey. He
said he had his Father’s old suit case to carry.

[Illustration: bunnie with wings]

Pretty Bunny was so interested talking that she would have gone on
past her crossing if Father Bun had not been looking out for her and
said,

    “You can have good manners if you choose;
    You had better mind your P’s and Q’s.”

He meant that Pretty Bunny had better pay attention when the car
stopped and be ready to get off, and he also wanted to remind her
not to talk to strangers.

Said Father Bun pleasantly,

    “You are starting on a real vacation,
    And here we are at the Railroad Station.”

Pretty Bunny noticed a group of Bunnies who were talking loudly in
the station and Old Father Bun remarked to her,

    “Those Bunnies ought to hide their faces,
    They have no business in public places.”

He went to get their tickets and check their suit-case, then they got
aboard the train.

Pretty Bunny was so excited she cried, “Where shall we sit? May I
take a seat next the window? Are all the seats reserved? How soon
will we start?” She was so noisy that several passengers turned and
stared.

Old Father Bun said,

    “Pretty Bunny, let me explain,
    We should have good manners on the train;
    Let no one know where you wish to go,
    And always speak in a voice quite low.”

Pretty Bunny was sorry she had made enough noise to attract the
attention of other people, so she sat very still until the train
started.

She began to think of her visit to Aunt Etiquette and wondered who
the strange Rabbit could be who went so quietly on the stairs. She
thought that the wheels suddenly said,

    “Up the stairs, up the stairs,
    Nobody cares, nobody cares.”

It was at this very minute that Old Father Bun asked Pretty Bunny if
she could take care of the check for her suit-case.

Of course, Pretty Bunny said, “Yes,” and Old Father Bun added,

    “Let me mention this again,
    Don’t talk to strangers on the train.”

In a few minutes, Pretty Bunny felt a tap on her back. There stood
Bunny Brag who had come on the same train without their noticing him.
As Pretty Bunny had talked with him in the street car, somehow she
did not look upon him as a stranger.

Bunny Brag sat down in the seat beside her and said,

    “I have a check for my suit-case, too;
    I tied mine with a ribbon blue.”

He felt in his pocket and found a piece of blue ribbon and tied it
on Pretty Bunny’s check. Every once in a while they exchanged checks
just for fun, and soon they had them so mixed up they did not know
which really belonged to them. Bunny Brag said it made no difference
any way, the checks looked just alike. They did not compare the
numbers on them.

[Illustration: mother bunny carrying bunny and father]

Bunny Brag said he was going on a long journey but he knew how to
take care of himself for he had been in the cars before. He bragged a
great deal about his trip.

He offered Pretty Bunny some peanuts and when Old Father Bun returned
he found peanut shells on the floor and car seat.

He made the two little Bunnies pick them up and asked Bunny Brag to
give him his seat. He then said to Pretty Bunny,

    “I thought I told you this before,
    Don’t throw things upon the floor;
    If anything you have to eat,
    Always keep the car-seat neat.”

He saw that Pretty Bunny had her check on a ribbon round her neck and
thought no more about the matter.

Bunny Brag ran up and down the aisle for a drink of water.

Pretty Bunny said, “May I get a drink of water, too?”

[Illustration: bunny in front of mirror]

Old Father Bun replied,

    “Can’t you really wait until
    We arrive at Bunnyville?”

He took out his little watch and said they would get to their
journey’s end in half an hour.

The little silver watch was a magic watch and as Old Father Bun held
it up to Pretty Bunny’s ear it said, as it ticked merrily along,

    “Here is a true saying, do not doubt it,
    You’re not thirsty unless you think about it.”

Old Father Bun continued it was a great annoyance for youngsters to
always want a drink of water when they were away from home.

In a short time they arrived at Bunnyville.

They waited until the train stopped to get off and Old Father Bun
helped Pretty Bunny down as she was so little. Then he took the check
from the ribbon round her neck and got the suit-case and they tripped
off merrily to Aunt Etiquette’s home.

When they arrived, there stood Aunt Etiquette in the door-way. She
kissed them both and they soon sat down to dinner.

Old Father Bun said he must catch the next train home, so he soon
bade Aunt Etiquette good bye, and Pretty Bunny stood and waved at
him as long as he was in sight.

Then she said,

    “Aunt Etiquette, what is the matter?
    I don’t hear your Bunny ‘pitter, patter’.”

Now, Aunt Etiquette had beautiful manners, but when she did not want
to answer a question she pretended she did not hear, so she often
made an odd reply. Now she said,

    “We will go up stairs, never fear,
    And unpack your suit-case, dear.”

Up the mysterious stair-case they went, and each board creaked after
them, for the house was very old, and Pretty Bunny did think she
heard some one else beside Aunt Etiquette behind her, but as she
turned she saw no other Bunny.

Pretty Bunny unlocked the suit case and took out the first garment.
It was such a suit as Healthy Bunny would wear. As they kept on
unpacking it grew worse and worse; there was not a thing for a Bunny
Girl to wear.

[Illustration: bunny next to cabinet]

Pretty Bunny sat down and cried.

Old Aunt Etiquette said,

    “Pretty Bunny, please explain,
    Did you exchange checks on the train?”

Aunt Etiquette thought of this, for she had once done the same thing
when she was a little girl. Then Pretty Bunny explained the whole
matter, and Aunt Etiquette said they would try to find Bunny Brag for
he had her suit-case, of course!

Aunt Etiquette was a cheerful person and remarked,

    “We will learn from a mistake,
    Another one we will not make.”

Aunt Etiquette then explained that it was important to keep your own
ticket and check on a train, and that though the checks looked alike
they had different numbers upon them and each check belonged to its
own suit-case.

When bed time came, Aunt Etiquette tucked Pretty Bunny up in one of
her own nighties, though it was miles too big, and she kissed her,
saying,

    “Trouble now we will not borrow;
    I’ll make you a dress to-morrow.”

Old Aunt Etiquette went down stairs to read the evening paper, and
Pretty Bunny tried to remember some of the things she had learned on
her trip.

She wondered if she would hear the “pitter, patter” again on the
stairs.

The Old Grandfather Clock ticked away, singing,

    “Our big front door we always lock,
    Tick, tock, tick, tock.”

Pretty Bunny felt quite at home when she heard the kindly Old
Grandfather Clock talking right outside her door, so she said
sleepily,

    “I’ll say my lesson over again,
    We should not eat peanuts on the train;
    And if for manners we really care,
    At strangers we will not rudely stare;
    And we can remember to speak low,
    When on a journey we have to go.
    Whether we have to ride or walk,
    This lesson I hope you’ve learned before,
    Please don’t throw things upon the floor;
    If you’re a well-mannered son or daughter,
    You’ll not ALWAYS ask for a drink of water;
    To sum up these jingles as a whole,
    Have you learned the lesson of Self-control?”

The Old Grandfather Clock enjoyed that very much and sang,

    “Your advice is good but it sounds funny;
    Go to sleep now, Pretty Bunny;
    The Sandman never stops to knock,
    Tick, tock, tick, tock.”

Before Pretty Bunny could think up another jingle she fell fast
asleep.




CHAPTER III.

THE BED-ROOM BUNNY


    Pretty Bunny, please don’t forget
    This Bed-Room belongs to Aunt Etiquette,
    So, Pretty Bunny, don’t you suppose
    You can put it in order and pick up clothes?

Pretty Bunny woke early next morning and sprang out of bed and looked
in the mirror. She saw another Bunny just her size and called, “Who
are you?” The other Bunny replied,

    “Said the Looking-Glass Bunny, ‘it’s funny but true,
    The more you see me, the more I see you.’”

Pretty Bunny nodded her head and the Looking-Glass Bunny did the same.

“How many Bunnies live in this house?” asked Pretty Bunny. The
Looking-Glass Bunny answered,

    “I can’t count, though you think it funny;
    Perhaps you will meet the Shadow Bunny.”

It was very early, and Pretty Bunny was beginning to feel a little
homesick when the Looking-Glass Bunny said,

    “Pretty Bunny, you should rejoice,
    Everything in this room has a voice.”

Right then and there, there was a humming sound and a voice from the
window called,

    “Pretty Bunny, don’t you care
    About letting in fresh air?”

Pretty Bunny had forgotten to open the window.

My! How close and stuffy the room was!

She ran now and opened the window and was wondering what to do next
to put the bed-room in order when a voice called,

    “Here is the foot, and here is the head,
    Do you know the way to make a bed?”

The pillows danced round in the most comical manner and sang,

    “Pretty Bunny, if you are bright,
    You will enjoy a pillow fight.”

My! that was a difficult bed to make! But in the course of time
Pretty Bunny had aired the bedding and made the bed up neatly with
the pillows at the head.

Pretty Bunny next enjoyed a cold bath and never for a minute thought
to pick up anything until a voice cried,

    “Said the pitcher, ‘I’ve heard such things before,
    Careless people leave me on the floor.’”

Pretty Bunny picked up the pitcher to set on the wash stand when, to
her surprise,

    The wash bowl said, “Just listen a minute,
    Why leave the bowl full, with water in it?”

Pretty Bunny emptied the water out of the bowl, dried it and set the
pitcher neatly in it.

Towels were on the floor and towels were on a chair.

To her surprise Pretty Bunny heard a voice say,

    “Pretty Bunny, have you the knack
    Of hanging towels upon a rack?”
    Then in a voice that scolded,
    She said, “Is each towel folded?”

Pretty Bunny laughed as she folded the towels and put them on the
rack. She was ready to dance down stairs when a voice cried out,

    “Though a maid is really the bed-room keeper,
    You might plan to use the carpet sweeper.”

Pretty Bunny found the carpet sweeper and ran it over the rug where
she had gotten lint from the towels. She then dusted the room and was
just ready when Aunt Etiquette rang the bell for breakfast.

Pretty Bunny said, “Good morning, I hope you slept well, Aunt
Etiquette,” and she kissed her on both cheeks, remarking, all in one
breath, as little Bunnies do,

    “How many Bunnies live with you?
    Tell me, Aunt Etiquette, please do.”

Aunt Etiquette replied,

    “Speak a little louder, dear,
    So Aunt Etiquette can hear.”

Try hard as she would, Pretty Bunny could not make Aunt Etiquette
understand a word of what she said!

They had a happy day together and when night came the most surprising
thing happened!

Pretty Bunny heard the “pitter, patter” of little feet behind her as
she went up stairs. Turning again, she could see no one. As usual,
she threw her clothes on the floor and heard a merry voice say,

    “For Bed-Room Manners if you care,
    Fold your clothes up on a chair.”

Pretty Bunny always minded, for minding is a part of good manners, so
she sprang out of bed and folded her clothes neatly on a chair.

She hopped back into bed, and to her surprise saw a little Bunny
sitting on one of the bed posts. He said,

    “Myself I’ll introduce to you;
    I’m the Bed-Room Bunny, how do you do?”

Pretty Bunny bowed politely and the Bed-Room Bunny continued,

    “You can learn manners if you choose;
    Tell me, where did you put your shoes?”

Pretty Bunny had left her shoes on the floor where any one might
stumble over them. She got up now and put them under the chair by
her clothes, saying,

    “I learn Bed-Room manners by day and night;
    I really like to be called polite.”

The Bed-Room Bunny answered,

    “Open your window, open it wide,
    If you really must sleep inside.”

Pretty Bunny got up and opened her window wide, and before she had
time to ask how many Bunnies lived in the house, she had fallen
asleep and was dreaming that every room in the house needed to be put
in order. She heard a voice call,

    “I’m the Good Mannered Bunny, I sing, and sing,
    We should have a place for everything.”

Next morning Pretty Bunny took pride in picking up her room, and she
asked to do the same for Aunt Etiquette who was old and stiff and
lame.

Aunt Etiquette was glad of a little help but remarked,

    “Bed-Room Manners taught me long ago
    Said, ‘Air your bed for an hour or so’.”

Pretty Bunny learned to leave the beds airing and made them up later
in the day. She helped Aunt Etiquette all day long and said,

    “I have met the Bed-Room Bunny,
    I don’t see him often, it is funny;
    And I would give a mint of money,
    If I could play with Looking-Glass Bunny.”

The Looking-Glass Bunny would not step over the mirror frame, though
Pretty Bunny tried to coax him to come out and play.

One day Pretty Bunny tacked some pictures up on the wall and the
Bed-Room Bunny peeped out from an open bureau drawer and said,

    “Don’t you hear me really scolding?
    Hang pictures only from the moulding.”

Sure enough, there was picture moulding all around the room.

There were plenty of hooks to hang pictures on and it did seem a
shame to drive tacks in the wall.

The Bed-Room Bunny also remarked,

    “A bureau drawer, as I suppose,
    Is really meant to open and CLOSE.”

He shouted the word “CLOSE”, for every bureau drawer was open a
little and it gave the room an untidy appearance.

Pretty Bunny closed up the bureau drawers and went about dancing and
singing a happy little song,

    “Bed-Room Manners if you please,
    Tell us many things like these,
    Let the fresh air come inside,
    Air your bed and make it neatly,
    Try to do your tasks completely,
    Fold towels neatly, for you know
    They look best hung in a row,
    In order put your wash-stand too,
    This any one can learn to do,
    Brush your room, we give fair warning,
    That you then may call “Good Morning.”
    And before you are quite through
    A duster we’ll introduce to you;
    These rules we think you’ll not forget,
    They make up Bed-Room Etiquette.”

[Illustration: bunny on stairs]

All this time no word had come from Bunny Brag and the lost suit
case. Many times Pretty Bunny wondered how he felt when he opened
her suit case and found it filled with dresses.

Late that night Pretty Bunny heard the “patter, patter” of little
feet, and called, “Who is there?” A voice answered, “Who is there?”
Pretty Bunny continued, “That is not fair,” and the voice answered,
“not fair.”

Pretty Bunny wondered more and more who was the Bunny who was
repeating everything she said.

She said to herself, “I love this old house and everything in it, and
to-morrow I will just sit out there on the stairs and try to catch
the Bunny who goes ‘pitter patter,’ but now I will say (and she spoke
out loud) Good night and pleasant dreams.”

A sweet voice answered, “Pleasant dreams.”




CHAPTER IV.

MANNERS AT TABLE.


    Every Bunny is surely able
    To learn good manners at the table,
    And you in turn will not regret
    If you learn table etiquette.

Next day Pretty Bunny put her room in order and went hoppety skip
down stairs, and straight to the breakfast table.

She started to slip into her chair, when to her surprise the chair
said,

    “To learn some manners it is best,
    Do not sit down before the rest.”

Pretty Bunny said, “This is the most wonderful house I was ever in
for even the furniture talks to me.”

Just then Aunt Etiquette came in with a steaming cup of coffee.
Pretty Bunny pulled out a chair for her and waited to sit down until
she was seated and said a pleasant “Good morning.”

    She said, “I do like cakes and honey;
    Where’s my friend, the Bed-Room Bunny?”

Aunt Etiquette smiled and said quite as though she had not heard this
question,

    “Pretty Bunny, are you able
    To keep your elbows off the table?”

Pretty Bunny blushed rosy red, unfolded her napkin and sat very
straight. When helped to coffee, cakes and honey, she began to eat
rather noisily and Aunt Etiquette said,

    “Bunnies, as well as girls and boys,
    Can eat their meals with little noise.”

Pretty Bunny said, “How I do love to learn lessons by saying jingles
over and over, for the funny little rhymes I can’t forget, and they
make me remember useful things.”

Just then a crash was heard and Pretty Bunny was so excited she left
the table without stopping to say, “Excuse me.”

She ran up stairs and found the mirror in her room had fallen and
broken into many pieces. She looked all about for the Looking-Glass
Bunny but caught only a glimpse of her long ears, and though she
called him again and again she received no answer.

Aunt Etiquette called,

    “Perhaps the mirror can be mended;
    Do not leave the meal ’till it is ended.”

Pretty Bunny slipped back into her place at the table and said,
“Please excuse me, Aunt Etiquette, I was so excited by the noise.”
Aunt Etiquette answered,

    “Manners at table, manners at table
    You can learn for you’re plenty able.”

Pretty Bunny said, “Please teach me good table manners, Aunt
Etiquette, so I will never be ashamed.”

Aunt Etiquette then said a magic verse and everything on the table
received a voice and one thing after another began to talk.

[Illustration: bunny family]

    Said the pretty silver knife,
    “I’ve had troubles all my life;
    In your mouth I don’t belong;
    Tell it in rhyme, tell it in song.”

Pretty Bunny used her knife to cut butter with, which was perfectly
proper, and she ate her food neatly with her fork and spoon. Then a
new voice piped up,

    “I will teach a lesson very soon,
    Eat from the side of your spoon.”

The spoon went on telling about some people who will take soup the
wrong way, putting the point of the spoon into the mouth instead of
sipping it from the side.

Pretty Bunny twisted round a good deal in her chair until the chair
said,

    “You’re a restless Bunny, I declare;
    Try to sit still in your chair.”

She dropped some crumbs on the floor and the rug under her feet sang
out,

    “Good manners require one thing more,
    Don’t drop crumbs upon the floor.”

Pretty Bunny was excited to hear all these voices and she was very
hungry, too, so she said, “Give me coffee, please. May I have more
honey?”

The honey pitcher remarked sweetly,

    “Wait ’till food is passed to you,
    As a well mannered Bunny would do.”

Pretty Bunny said, “Aunt Etiquette, there are so many things to
learn, I do wonder what broke the mirror?”

Aunt Etiquette said,

    “The cord was broken once before;
    I think it fell upon the floor.”

Pretty Bunny was still hungry and started to take two cookies at a
time to finish up her breakfast and the cookie plate called out,

    “If you can learn a simple rhyme,
    Take just one thing at a time.”

Pretty Bunny put one cookie back on the plate. Now, as she was not
always careful to chew with her mouth closed, Aunt Etiquette remarked,

    “To be well mannered ’tis supposed
    To eat your food with mouth well closed.”

Pretty Bunny began to drum upon the plate and the table said,

    “Bunny, ’tis a sad mistake
    Drumming noises now to make.”

Pretty Bunny finished breakfast.

    Now, I am happy to relate,
    Her knife and fork lay on her plate
    Side by side, and the proper thing,
    She put her napkin in the ring.

Just as Pretty Bunny said, “Aunt Etiquette, may I be excused from the
table?” “Ting-a-ling,” rang the door bell, and Pretty Bunny went to
answer.

There to her surprise stood Homeless Bunny, and Happy Bunny, and
Healthy Bunny and Heedless Bunny; they had come on a hike all the way.

Pretty Bunny bowed to her visitors and asked them in and introduced
them one at a time to Aunt Etiquette.

Aunt Etiquette said,

    “You are welcome to stay a year and day;
    You may attend school just down the way.”

[Illustration: There Stood Homeless, Happy, Heedless, and Healthy
Bunny]

[Illustration: bunny running]

“School!” said Homeless Bunny.

“School!” said Happy Bunny.

Healthy Bunny asked, “Is it schooltime?”

Heedless Bunny said, “Would we really have to go to school?”

Aunt Etiquette answered,

    “School is in session, as a rule;
    Fine manners you can learn in school.”

Then, without a word of warning, instantly and in a moment of time,
Heedless Bunny turned a somersault and ran off as fast as his legs
could carry him.

Happy Bunny said, “If you will excuse me, Aunt Etiquette, I will
hurry homeward.” Heedless Bunny said, “Good bye,” and so you see only
Healthy Bunny was willing to stay and go to school.

Healthy Bunny and Pretty Bunny talked after they had gone to bed that
night and Pretty Bunny said,

    “You can learn, if you are able,
    Very good manners at the table;
    Perhaps you’ve heard me say before,
    Don’t drop crumbs upon the floor;
    Use your knife to butter bread,
    For food use fork and spoon instead;
    Keep your lips closed, if you please,
    Don’t make noises—do not tease.
    This lesson you can learn quite soon,
    Drink soup from the side of the spoon;
    To fold your napkin you are able,
    And say “Excuse me from the table.”

Pretty Bunny’s head went nid-nid, nodding, and she was soon fast
asleep, but Healthy Bunny heard the “patter, patter, patter,” of
little feet upon the stairs. He wondered if it could be Bunny Brag
coming with the suit case.

He ran out in the hall and saw no one, so he said “I must have
fallen asleep and been dreaming after all. I wish I could see the
Looking-Glass Bunny, but I suppose he broke the mirror and ran away.”

Healthy Bunny crept down into the hall and danced before the mirror
and there he saw the Looking-Glass Bunny dancing merrily. He asked
the Looking-Glass Bunny who went “pitter, patter,” on the stairs, but
the Looking-Glass Bunny only nodded and smiled and danced, and did
not answer a word for sixteen minutes, then he whispered,

    “I could tell you, if I choose,
    But you’d scatter far and wide the news.”

Healthy Bunny laughed and went back to bed, for the Looking-Glass
Bunny could keep some secrets after all.

Healthy Bunny dreamed that he sat at table with Aunt Etiquette and
sang to the tune of “Twinkle Little Star,”

    “Bunnies, you will not regret
    Lessons learned in Etiquette;
    At the table have a care
    To sit straight up in your chair.”

Next morning at breakfast Healthy Bunny asked if he might repeat the
song.

Aunt Etiquette said, “Yes,” and added,

    “Manners at table, manners at table,
    Are taught by Fairy Tale and Fable;
    If we try, we all are able
    To learn good manners at the table.”




CHAPTER V.

MANNERS IN SCHOOL


    Aunt Etiquette said, “I remember
    School began here last September,
    And manners that you learn in school
    Will always help you, as a rule.”

Next morning Aunt Etiquette said, “If you are going to visit me a
year and a day, you will have to start to school.”

Healthy Bunny said, “I will go back home, but Pretty Bunny can stay
and go to school.”

Pretty Bunny began to feel a little homesick at that but she helped
Aunt Etiquette fill up her dinner pail and bade good bye to Healthy
Bunny at the crossroads and sang,

    “Sing a song as you go by,
    And never, never, never cry.”

[Illustration: bunny making shadow]

A merry voice answered,

    “I think your little rhymes are funny.
    Turn around—see Shadow Bunny.”

Pretty Bunny turned around and saw Shadow Bunny behind her. She
laughed at his long ears, but he said,

    “I follow you about all day;
    I am Shadow Bunny—I like to play.”

Pretty Bunny hopped along and said to herself, “I feel rather strange
for this will be my first day in the new school. I wonder if Bunny
Brag may possibly come to this school.”

Bunny Brag did not appear at school, and Pretty Bunny did not meet
him for days and days.

Pretty Bunny looked around when she came to the door of the school;
Shadow Bunny had disappeared.

Pretty Bunny hesitated a minute, but the Bunnies in Miss Manner’s
school were very polite. They told Pretty Bunny where to hang her
wraps and her dinner-pail, and made her feel quite at home. As it
was not yet time for school to begin, the Bunnies went and cleaned
the blackboard and erasers and hung up all the erasers neatly on the
hooks. They said,

    “We help the teacher every day
    In our work in every way.”

[Illustration: bunny in flowers]

The teacher came in with a pleasant “Good Morning.”

She read a story that day that every one liked. The story was called,
“Little Rag-Tag.”

“Once upon a time, Little Rag-Tag came to school. She had on a ragged
dress and the buttons were off her shoes.

Little Miss Brag said, “Look at her dress,” and Thoughtless Tom said,
“Look at her shoes.”

They made so much fun of her that it made Little Rag-Tag very unhappy.

I don’t know what she would have done but Little Miss Shy came and
hugged her and showed her where to sit, and made her feel at home.
She even loaned her a new blue pencil.

    Little Rag-Tag made the blue pencil spell;
    Little Rag-Tag did her numbers well.

She forgot her torn dress and old shoes, but at recess

    Some thoughtless children made her cry,
    They pointed her out as she passed by.
    Little Miss Shy seemed to understand,
    She walked beside her, and took her hand.

After that, Little Rag-Tag did not come to school for days and days
and the teacher found out she was ill.

    The school room Clock said, “If you don’t mind,
    I’ll give you a lesson in being kind;
    It would make you unhappy, too,
    If any one were to laugh at you;
    Why don’t you try, like Little Miss Shy,
    To do a kindness as you pass by?”

Little Miss Brag and Thoughtless Tom were sorry they had been unkind
and Little Miss Shy said,

    “In school there are so very many,
    What if each one gave a penny?
    We can remember, if we try,
    And a new dress we can buy.”

The pennies came thick and fast and they helped to buy a dress all
ready made for Little Rag-Tag, and the next time she came to school
she had on the new dress, and her shoes were neatly buttoned, and she
said “I love every one.”

A little kindness had made her all smiles and sunshine.

The Bunnies liked this story so well that for three whole days they
remembered not to make fun of any one as a lesson in manners and a
lesson in kindness.

Next day, when Pretty Bunny got to school, she saw some of the
Bunnies in a group laughing at some joke they did not explain to the
others. She said,

    “Good mannered Bunnies have a care
    Their jokes with every one to share.”

[Illustration: bunnies in school]

The Bunnies in this school did really want to learn good manners, so
now they shared their joke with Pretty Bunny.

Then Pretty Bunny said, “I know a joke, too.”

    “Yesterday, ’twas really funny,
    I came to school with Shadow Bunny;
    I thought to-day we’d run a race,
    But could not find her any place.”

The Bunnies said,

    “Shadow Bunny is full of fun,
    But only comes out with the sun.”

The day was cloudy, and Pretty Bunny said, “How much there is to
learn in school, and out,” and the School Room Clock quite agreed
with her, for by and by, when the Bunnies were asking to borrow
pencils and erasers and rulers, the School Room Clock sang,

    “Provide yourselves with things to-morrow,
    Then you will not have to borrow.”

Some of the Bunnies whispered and the School Room Clock ticked loudly
and said,

    “Good manners you must learn again,
    From whispering then please refrain.”

Some of the Bunnies had to look in the dictionary to see what the
last word meant. Do you?

They all became so still in school they could hear the Clock ticking.

That day so many children wanted to go out for a drink of water and
so many children asked needless questions that Miss Manners said,

    “Self-control is a mighty task;
    Think before some things you ask.”

When the Bunnies stopped to think they found many questions they
asked were needless. The Clock talked again,

    “Do not shuffle with your feet;
    Keep the aisles about you neat.”

It continued,

    “Don’t snap your fingers; observe the rule
    Be polite all day in school.”

Miss Manners taught them all to play games and reminded them to be
honest. She said,

    “Take your turn, perhaps you’ll beat,
    No one can endure a cheat.”

Some Bunnies wanted to break into a game already started and some of
them boasted they could run faster than any one else. Miss Manners
said,

    “We’ll make a good-mannered poster;
    No one ever loves a boaster.”

She continued to say that we should be willing to take our turn in
playing a game and be good-natured whether we won or not.

Tattle-Tale Bunny stood in the corner of the play-ground talking to a
new Bunny, and Miss Manners called him to her quietly and said that
we should not repeat tales to any one, even after school; the only
ones safe to confide in were the teacher, or one’s own mother.

When the recess games were over the Bunnies came trooping in, still
noisy and out of breath. Then the teacher gave them a “Sitting
Lesson.” They had to fold their paws and sit so still they could hear
the Clock tick.

Miss Manners had them write, as a lesson, something to remember after
school. They wrote,

    “We will not linger about to play,
    We will go home from school each day.”

If Pretty Bunny had followed this advice she would not have met with
misfortune. As it was, she hung around the school grounds some time
and then went loitering along, singing,

    “When I grow up I’ll keep each rule,
    And have good manners each day in school;
    I’ll take two pencils, so I’ll not borrow
    One from my seat-mate, to-day or to-morrow;
    I will not whisper, you understand,
    And quietly I’ll raise my hand;
    I’ll keep my desk and aisle so neat,
    And not make noises with my feet;
    On the play ground every day,
    I will stand up for fair play;”
    Pretty Bunny behaved well as a rule
    But went on singing, “Manners in School.”

She went on humming until some one said,

    “Here you are, my run-a-way;
    I’ve looked for you most all day.”

Pretty Bunny looked around and before she could say a word a large
Bunny was leading her off.




CHAPTER VI.

SHOPPING MANNERS


    Have you thought of this before,
    To have good manners in the store?
    If you go there day or night,
    Always try to be polite.

Pretty Bunny said to the strange Bunny, “I am sure you are mistaken;
I am on my way home from school.”

The stranger Bunny said, “Ha, ha, ha, so you think you can fool me
again; indeed, I have never had such a search in all my life.”

The strange Bunny was very near-sighted, and she really did mistake
Pretty Bunny for her own run-away Grandchild!

On they went until they came to the grocery store, then in they went.

Pretty Bunny was very hungry.

Are you ever hungry after school?

[Illustration: bunnies at store]

She picked up a few peanuts that were in a box on the counter, really
without thinking, and the strange Bunny boxed her ears, saying,

    “Your ways seem very rude and funny;
    Don’t help yourself, but pay your money.”

Another Bunny was ordering of another clerk and kept asking questions
and said the prices were much too high and talked so as to take up
all the clerk’s time.

The strange Bunny asked Pretty Bunny if she had noticed this after
they had left the store, and remarked,

    “To be well-mannered I hope you’ll try;
    Don’t handle things unless you buy.”

Pretty Bunny said, “Let me go home, please let me go home; you have
made a mistake, I am not your grandchild at all, I am visiting Aunt
Etiquette.”

The strange Bunny went hurrying on as though nothing had been said.
They went into a house at last and the door latched behind them.

The strange Bunny looked at Pretty Bunny very hard and said,

    “I think perhaps I have been tricked
    But it is not your business to contradict.”

She went on to say we should be very careful about disputing with our
elders; even if we feel sure we are right, we should say politely, “I
think it was this way.”

Pretty Bunny sat down and cried.

The stranger Bunny said,

    “We should try, in all times and places,
    To be cheerful, with smiling faces;
    You don’t know some things I suspect;
    To older people show respect.”

Then Pretty Bunny got up and bowed low and said,

    “I did not really want to come;
    Let me go home, let me go home.”

The strange Bunny said,

    “A little Bunny should not tease,
    But use words like ‘If you please’.”

After this, the strange Bunny began to act wild and said “Who broke
my water pitcher this morning? and who hid my coal scuttle? Who ran
off with my big cabbage?”

Now Pretty Bunny wished for the hundredth time she had gone right
home from school and truly she did not know what to do, for she had
done none of these things, and I don’t know what in the world would
have happened if the Run Away Bunny had not come bounding in at that
very moment.

He said,

    “I am hungry, I want honey,
    I am back, Run Away Bunny.”

The strange Bunny put on her best spectacles and said,

    “I did make a mistake I see,
    But Bunnies look alike to me.”

For all that, she would not let Pretty Bunny go home in the dark, for
evening had come.

Run Away Bunny was very impolite and called the strange Bunny by her
first name.

She boxed his ears and said,

    “I have told you before, it is a shame
    To call an older person by their first name.”

Pretty Bunny said, “I learned another lesson one day in politeness.
Shall I tell it to you?”

    “We should not laugh at a story we tell,
    Not even if we relate it well.”

The strange Bunny asked her grandchild for another ball of yarn, for
she was busily knitting. She was surprised to have it tossed to her
from across the room.

She said,

    “Do not toss things, that’s rarely done;
    Always hand them, please, to every one.”

Just then she remembered she was thirsty and asked Pretty Bunny to go
and get her a pitcher of water, which pretty Bunny was glad to do,
of course, but she handed her the pitcher in the wrong manner, still
holding onto the handle herself.

Said the strange Bunny,

    “Some manners you have learned I see,
    But the handle please turn toward me.”

She continued by saying that we should always pass an article to
another with the handle toward them; that was the correct thing to do.

Pretty Bunny said, “I am afraid Aunt Etiquette will be looking for me
at home.”

The strange Bunny said,

    “She will worry, I do not doubt it,
    But what can we really do about it?”

Pretty Bunny said she was not afraid of the dark and was anxious to
get back to Aunt Etiquette, but the strange Bunny said, “It is not
safe for youngsters to be out late,” so they sat for an hour and ten
minutes thinking over the matter.

    The strange Bunny said, “This thing I’ll do,
    I will walk on home to-night with you.”

No sooner said than done.

[Illustration: bunnies in moon]

The Run Away Bunny was left to keep house, and the other went off in
the dark, the strange Bunny saying,

    “I learned, before I grew so old,
    To always do as I was told.”

Pretty Bunny replied,

    “I really meant to keep the rule,
    And not linger after school.”

A light shone from Aunt Etiquette’s door-way.

She stood in her own door-way, and as they drew near they heard her
say,

    “Where, oh, where, is Pretty Bunny?
    I wouldn’t lose her for a mint of money.”

Several Bunnies crowded round Aunt Etiquette.

Said Homeless Bunny, “I hear foot-steps.”

Said Heedless Bunny, “Perhaps she is coming home.”

Said Happy Bunny, “I think I hear her voice.”

Said Healthy Bunny, “Here come two Bunnies down the road, clippety,
clippety, clip.”

Sure enough the strange Bunny and Pretty Bunny were coming nearer
every minute, and in less time than it takes to tell it Pretty Bunny
was in Aunt Etiquette’s arms and the strange Bunny came inside and
had a cup of tea and said,

[Illustration: bunnies in heart]

    “I am sorry I made this mistake;
    Very good tea, indeed, you make.”

It is polite to compliment a hostess on her food and drink. The
strange Bunny said she was very near sighted and had been looking for
her Run-Away grandchild all day. She was sorry, indeed, she had made
such a mistake.

Aunt Etiquette politely asked her visitor to stay all night, but she
declined and asking Aunt Etiquette to call on her soon, went homeward.

Pretty Bunny said she learned more about manners every day of her
life.

    She said, “I am learning more, and more,
    We can have good manners in the store;
    We should not complain about the price,
    Or ask the same thing over twice;
    If things we don’t intend to buy,
    To keep our hands off we must try;
    We should not sample things, ’tis true,
    Unless the clerk should ask us to.”

Aunt Etiquette kissed Pretty Bunny good night, and said,

    “You are fortunate this time, it’s true;
    No telling what might have happened to you.”

The other Bunnies crowded round for their good night kiss and Aunt
Etiquette said to them all,

    “To-morrow, if we chance to meet,
    I’ll teach you manners on the street.”

Pretty Bunny went to sleep, singing,

    “There’s something in my heart that sings,
    We can show good manners in little things;
    We should be polite and never bold,
    And always do what we are told.”




CHAPTER VII.

STREET MANNERS.


    If every Bunny that we meet
    Had good manners on the street,
    What a pleasant world ’twould be
    For other folks like you and me.

Next morning early, Aunt Etiquette called,

    “Come, Bunnies, I’ll give you all a treat,
    We’ll take a walk upon the street.”

All the Bunnies, except Pretty Bunny, were ready soon and in their
hurry they slid down the banisters. Pretty Bunny stopped to put her
room in order. This took her so long the other Bunnies had started on
their way when she was ready.

As her little feet went “pitter, patter” down the stairs she heard
another “pitter, patter” behind her. She turned, but saw no one.
She ran out doors and none of the Bunnies were in sight. She stood
by the side of the house and called, “Boo-Hoo.” A voice answered,
“Boo-Hoo.”

[Illustration: two bunnies]

Pretty Bunny cried excitedly, “Who are you?” and the voice repeated,
“Who are you?”

Pretty Bunny said, “Are you the Bunny who goes pitter, patter on the
stairs?” The voice answered, “On the stairs.”

Suddenly Pretty Bunny sat down and laughed until she cried, and then
she said,

    “Some things are surely very funny;
    I think you are the Echo Bunny.”
    The voice replied, “Echo Bunny.”

[Illustration: three bunnies]

Pretty Bunny said, “Good bye,” and Echo Bunny, (for it was really
he,) answered, “Good bye.”

At this very minute Healthy Bunny came back and said Aunt Etiquette
had just found out that Pretty Bunny had been left behind.

Healthy Bunny and Pretty Bunny bumped into several people on the walk
until Pretty Bunny remarked,

    “A little Bunny who is bright
    Will always turn out to the right.”

They noticed then that people turned to the right and teams turned to
the right also.

By this time they had caught up with the others and noticed Aunt
Etiquette bowing politely to people she met.

She said,

    “How many Bunnies noticed that?
    How many Bunnies raised their hat?”

She said gentlemen always raised their hats when a lady they were
walking with spoke to any one.

Heedless Bunny tried to attract the attention of a Bunny across the
street and Aunt Etiquette said,

    “Speak when any one you meet,
    But please don’t shout across the street.”

Homeless Bunny said, “Should we always wait for an older person to
speak to us?”

Aunt Etiquette replied,

    “You may learn street manners now;
    To an older person first you’ll bow.”

She said a young person may recognize an older person first, and that
it is right to always be ready to speak to a person you know.

“Where are we going to-day, Aunt Etiquette?” asked Healthy Bunny.

Happy Bunny shouted, “Where? where?” and they soon had a crowd around
them, they made so much noise. When the crowd found there was nothing
the matter they went on their way.

Aunt Etiquette looked quite severe and said,

    “How many times must I repeat;
    Don’t attract attention on the street.”

The Bunnies looked quite ashamed and Pretty Bunny said very politely,
in a low voice, “Please tell us where we are going, Aunt Etiquette.”

Aunt Etiquette answered,

    “To the library to get a book;
    We will seek a cozy nook.”

At this, Heedless Bunny said, “Oh, no, please take us to the Park.”

Homeless Bunny said, “Please take us to the restaurant.”

Happy Bunny said, “We can have a good time most any place, but we
have to keep still in a library.”

There were so many of them Aunt Etiquette had to say every little
while,

    “Step behind another, lad and lass,
    Step behind to let another pass.”

Heedless Bunny began to whistle and sing, and the first thing the
rest knew he had gone off down a cross street.

Homeless Bunny did not learn good manners easily so he stopped to
talk to a person on a street corner.

Happy Bunny took hold of Healthy Bunny, but they took too much room
that way walking on the sidewalk, so Aunt Etiquette remarked,

    “Happy Bunny, you mean no harm,
    On the street don’t take another’s arm;
    To properly walk, please don’t forget,
    Is part of good street Etiquette;
    Walk straight ahead, and I suppose
    You learned long ago to turn out your toes.”

[Illustration: bunnies dressed up]

Happy Bunny and Pretty Bunny looked down to see if they were really
turning out their toes. They told Aunt Etiquette that sometimes at
home they practised walking straight and tried to stand so erect that
they could walk about carrying a book on their heads without letting
it drop.

They met some Bunnies who were dressed gayly and by dress and manner
tried really to attract attention.

    Aunt Etiquette said, “Need I mention?
    We should never try to attract attention.”

She continued,

    “I am truly glad to see
    That you keep step with me.”

Sure enough, they were all keeping step.

Happy Bunny turned to look after a group of Bunnies they had passed
and Aunt Etiquette said,

    “Don’t turn to look back at those you meet;
    Please observe good manners on the street;
    And a youngster may be in danger,
    If he speaks to a beggar or stranger.”

By the time they had come to the library Happy Bunny began to ask
questions. “What book are you looking for, Aunt Etiquette?”

She smiled and answered. “I am looking for a book of Home-Made Fairy
Tales.”

Pretty Bunny said, “Hurrah, hurrah.”

Aunt Etiquette said, “If you really want to learn good manners you
will do some thinking. In a library people are reading.”

    “Though it is not quite like school,
    Be very still—observe this rule.”

Aunt Etiquette got the book she wanted and they started homeward.

Happy Bunny went off by himself but Healthy Bunny and Pretty Bunny
went on with Aunt Etiquette.

She gave the two cunning little Bunnies a surprise.

She took them into a restaurant and let them order ice cream and cake.

Healthy Bunny was in such a hurry to taste his ice cream and Pretty
Bunny was in such a hurry to taste her cake that they began to eat
before Aunt Etiquette had put on her gold rimmed spectacles, and she
said quietly,

    “To keep good manners at the table,
    Just wait to start ’till all are able.”

The Bunnies now waited until Aunt Etiquette was ready to eat too, and
they said they were glad to learn so many little things in a pleasant
way.

When they arrived home at last, Pretty Bunny drew a picture of a
side walk and wrote below it every rule of street manners she could
remember.

Healthy Bunny made a little song and sang it to the tune of “Twinkle
Little Star.”

    “When you’re walking on the street,
    Be polite to all you meet;
    When you’re grown you’ll not regret
    That you learned street Etiquette.”

Late that night Pretty Bunny told Healthy Bunny about hearing Echo
Bunny speak.

    She said, “I wonder if he cares
    That I hear him patter on the stairs.”

Healthy Bunny did not answer; he was already asleep.




CHAPTER VIII.

AN ON TIME TALE.


    To be on time if you often fail,
    You had better read this On-time Tale;
    If you would be a well trained Rabbit,
    To be on time please form the habit.

Next day Aunt Etiquette called,

    “Come, be on time at the table;
    To be prompt you are able.”

Then, Pretty Bunny and Healthy Bunny knew that breakfast was ready,
and they went hoppety-skip down stairs.

Healthy Bunny did many useful things for Old Aunt Etiquette. He
helped her put her house in order and Pretty Bunny washed her dishes,
but, sad to say, they were so slow about the work that Pretty Bunny
was late to school. That evening she had to stay in school to make up
the time she had missed, and as Healthy Bunny was visiting school he
had to wait for her.

[Illustration: Aunt Etiquette bunny]

When evening came Old Aunt Etiquette put on her best spectacles and
said,

    “Who was late, tell me pray?
    Who was right on time to-day?”

Pretty Bunny said,

    “To be late to school I’ll not form the habit;
    I was a careless, forgetful Rabbit.”

Healthy Bunny said, “I am to blame too, I suppose. I should have run
to the store to get your laundry soap long before time for the store
to close.”

Both the Bunnies begged Aunt Etiquette to tell a story and she
said, “I will read you a story from the book I got at the library
yesterday. So she began to read “An On-Time Tale.”

“Once upon a time Tardy Ted talked to his father one evening, and his
father remarked,

    “You are late to breakfast, and supper and dinner;
    I know you don’t mean to be a great sinner;
    You are willing to learn if you know the way;
    To what else were you late to-day?”

Tardy Ted loved to talk to his father.

    Tardy Ted hung his head,
    To his father this he said,

[Illustration: They Had Ice Cream and Cake]

[Illustration: business bunnies]

    “I want to be on time as a rule,
    But father, I was late to school.”

His father replied,

    “If every one in the world was late,
    For hours and hours we’d have to wait,
    Of the Whistling Wind I’ll ask advice,
    And he may help us in a trice.”

The Whistling Wind had a word soon with Ted’s father, and he
whispered to many people that Ted was to visit next day.

    Tardy Ted was late to bed,
    The Whistling Wind went on ahead.

The next day was Saturday and Tardy Ted went to the Tailor to see if
he had repaired his best suit and put buttons on it. The Tailor said,
as though it was a matter of no moment,

    “Alas, young man, I’m a little late;
    I really think you’ll have to wait.”

Then Tardy Ted went to the Shoemaker who was mending his best shoes,
and the Shoemaker said,

    “Alas, young man, I’m a little late;
    I really think you’ll have to wait.”

Then he went to the store at the last minute to buy a new neck tie,
and as it was time to close, the clerk said,

    “Alas, young man, I’m a little late;
    I really think you’ll have to wait.”

Tardy Ted went home looking very serious for next day he had a
special piece to speak in Sunday School, and he could hardly bear the
thought of wearing an old suit, and old shoes, and old neck tie.

[Illustration: bunny thinking]

Father said, “Too bad, too bad.” He did not add that he had spoken to
the Whistling Wind about Tardy Ted’s habit of being late. He did not
say he had asked the Whistling Wind to drop a word to the Tailor, and
Shoemaker, and Clerk, to teach Tardy Ted a lesson.

Tardy Ted went out all by himself into the woods and began to think
how upsetting it would be if everybody was late everywhere with work.

It was at this very minute that he heard the Fairy Shoemaker singing,

    “A rat-a-tat, tat, a rat-a-tat, too,
    I mend shoes and make them good as new.”

Tardy Ted looked all round but he could not find the Fairy Shoemaker,
but he recited his troubles any way.

The Fairy Shoemaker said,

    “A rat-a-tat, tat, a rat-a-tat, too,
    I could sew on a few buttons for you.”

Then Tardy Ted said, “I still have no neck tie to wear, for my old
one is in shreds. How is it you are willing to take so much trouble
for me?”

The Fairy Shoemaker replied,

    “A rat-a-tat, tat, you’re a little lad,
    Not always good, and not always bad.
    The Fairy Shoemaker takes a turn,
    As to be on time you wish to learn.”

Then the most surprising thing happened!

[Illustration: bunny fairy]

Tardy Ted looked down at his feet and saw the cutest little watch
that sang,

    “I can make up a song and rhyme,
    I can help you to be on time.”

Tardy Ted could find no owner for the watch so he put it in his
pocket and from that moment everything went well.

He got home in time for supper, and there was his coat with the
buttons upon it. There were his shoes all mended and Father laid down
a mysterious package on the table.

    In it was a neck tie of bright red,
    The very thing for Tardy Ted.

He was happy as happy could be, and next day spoke his piece well. He
decided that the little watch was a magic watch.

    He said, “You set my heart a-flutter,
    I will hurry or be late to supper;
    When you tick, tick, I’m always able
    To be on time and sit at table;
    You keep on ticking as a rule,
    I will be on time to school;
    To Tardy Ted I know you’ve said
    Time to get up and time for bed.’
    I know some rhymes but hardly half
    Of those you say—It’s time to laugh,’
    I will set you now an hour ahead,
    So I’ll lose the name of Tardy Ted.”

From that hour Tardy Ted surprised every one by being on time, and
sometimes he was really a little ahead of time.

  His name was changed to Teddy On Time,’
  And he often made up a song and rhyme;
  So now he is known in every clime
  As the dear little, queer little Teddy On Time’.”

“What became of the Fairy Shoemaker?” asked Pretty Bunny.

“What became of Teddy On Time?” asked Healthy Bunny.

Aunt Etiquette’s head went nid-nid nodding and she fell asleep.

Pretty Bunny saw by the clock it was quarter of eight and she
whispered to Healthy Bunny,

    “Don’t you know what the story said?
    Let’s hurry or we’ll be late to bed.”

The Family Clock remarked,

    “I could hear that whisper round the block,
    Tick tick, tock, tick tick, tock.”

Those two little Bunnies went pitter, patter, up stairs.

Healthy Bunny looked under the pillow and what do you suppose he
saw? There were two, shining silver watches. On the back of each was
written,

    “Tick, tick, tock, hear me chime,
    ‘Be on time, be on time’;
    Your manners please do not forget;
    Be sure to thank Aunt Etiquette.”

Both Bunnies went to sleep dreaming of the Fairy Shoemaker.




CHAPTER IX.

A PICK-IT-UP TALE.


    To pick up things please don’t forget;
    I’ve one more thing to tell you yet:
    To pick up things you’ll form the habit,
    If you are a well-mannered Rabbit.

One morning Aunt Etiquette came down stairs and found everything in
the living room in disorder. Healthy Bunny had thrown the newspapers
on the floor the night before, and Pretty Bunny had left faded
flowers in a vase.

Healthy Bunny had been on the sofa and the pillows were all upset.

Even the chairs in the room looked awkward, for they were not in
their usual places.

A few crumbs were also on the floor for Pretty Bunny had been
careless while eating a cookie, so Aunt Etiquette sat down in a
willow rocker and sighed and sighed.

When the Bunnies came down stairs they said, “What is the matter,
Aunt Etiquette?”

She must have waved a wand or said a magic verse for the newspaper
said in a crisp voice,

    “I often made the remark before,
    I don’t BELONG upon the floor’.”

Healthy Bunny picked up the newspaper in the twinkling of an eye, and
the faded flowers said,

    “Don’t leave faded flowers around,
    No telling by whom they’ll be found.”

Pretty Bunny threw the flowers out and washed the vase neatly, then
the pillows on the old couch said,

    “Pick us up before you go to bed.”

The Bunnies gave them a great straightening and the furniture began
to sigh,

[Illustration: bunny in chair]

    “Chairs in the corners, chairs in a row,
    In the proper place each chair should go.”

My, how easily the chairs were put where they belonged and the
Bunnies then discovered the crumbs on the floor and used a carpet
sweeper, before another word could be said. Then Aunt Etiquette
smiled but said, “We are so late I will let you help get breakfast
and then I will read you a real ‘Pick-Up Story’.”

After breakfast Aunt Etiquette began the story of “Polly Pick-It-Up.”

She began,

“Once upon a time Polly wanted to go on a visit.”

“Was it a Polly Rabbit or a Polly Parrot?” asked Pretty Bunny.

Healthy Bunny said, “Was she going to make you a visit, Aunt
Etiquette?”

It was some time before Aunt Etiquette began her story again and the
Family Clock sang,

    “Tick, tick tock, I am right,
    To interrupt is not polite.”

Aunt Etiquette began once more,

“Once upon a time Polly wanted to go on a visit and she asked mother
who replied,

[Illustration: bunny looking a clock]

    “Ask the old Family Clock,
    Who always sings ‘Tick, tock’.”

At this point in the story Aunt Etiquette’s Family Clock pricked up
its ears to listen.

“Polly said politely to the clock, “May I go on a visit to-day?”

The Family Clock replied,

    “The Family Clock would not mind,
    If you’d use my key to wind.”

Polly took the hint and wound up the Clock who continued,

    “Do look at the full Waste Basket,
    Stop a minute, please, and ask it.”

So, Polly asked the Waste Basket, “May I go on a visit to-day?” The
basket replied,

    “To anything I will agree,
    If you’ll stop and empty me.”

Polly thought that a very broad hint, so she emptied the basket and a
new voice piped up,

    “Who will pick up the centre table?
    Polly dear, I think you’re able.”

Polly began to straighten the books and put the magazines in even
piles and put away the candy box. She picked up for herself and all
the family, and she heard a voice say,

    “A duster makes old things just shine;
    Polly Pick-It-Up, that is fine.”

So it went on all day long, everything called to Polly to pick it
up, and at evening mother said, “I don’t see how I could keep house
without Polly Pick-It-Up. It is such a comfort to come in and find
the living room in order.”

Father said,

    “She shall have her visit, never fear,
    Uncle Education is almost here.”

At that very minute there was heard the gallop of horses’ feet, and
in less time than it takes to tell it, Uncle Education stood in the
door-way, saying,

    “I have just a minute to stay;
    Will some one ride with me to-day?”

Every one wanted to ride with Uncle Education, of course, as he was
on horse back, but mother settled the matter by saying,

[Illustration: bunnies on horse]

    “Polly Pick-It-Up should go,
    She is the most helpful child I know;
    She winds the Clocks and sets them right,
    She picks up morning, noon and night,
    She emptied out the old Waste Basket
    Almost before it had time to ask it;
    She tidies up the table too,
    As you and I could also do,
    And then she says, “I really must
    Stop a while and dust and dust.
    Polly Pick-It-Up has pluck,
    So she deserves to have Good Luck.”

Polly Pick-It-Up was soon seated on the old horse’s back in front of
Uncle Education and they went trotting, trotting along.

At this very minute in the reading of the story Aunt Etiquette sat
still.

Pretty Bunny put her paw up to her ear to listen.

Healthy Bunny cried, “Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah, I hear the “click,
click, click,” of horses’ feet, and they sound as though they were
coming nearer every minute.”

Sure enough, a horse was coming down the road, and, sure enough, it
stopped, and in a few minutes a Bunny was rapping, tapping on the
door. He carried a very sleepy Bunny and he bowed low and said,

    “I’m starting on a short vacation;
    My name is Uncle Education.

    Polly Pick-It-Up, you see,
    Naturally came along with me;
    I am tired beyond a doubt,
    For I teach year in, year out;
    Long ago I think we met,
    I hope you’re well, Aunt Etiquette.”

[Illustration: bunnies at table]

Pretty Bunny and Healthy Bunny stood with their mouths open, for it
was such a wonderful ending to a story. Polly Pick-It-Up made a bow
and said,

    “Aunt Etiquette, ’tis thus I greet you,
    I am very glad to meet you.”

Then, there was a great introducing all around, and the little
Bunnies went out to play. To their surprise another Bunny greeted
them and said,

    “I often sing a little rhyme,
    I am your friend, Teddy On Time.”

Then Pretty Bunny and Healthy Bunny cried,

    “How do you do? How do you do?
    The stories in that book are true;
    Polly Pick-It-Up and Teddy On Time,
    You are well known in every clime.”

Those four cute little Bunnies played ball until it was time for
dinner.




CHAPTER X.

COMPANY MANNERS


    “Company manners you’ll not regret,
    If you learn to behave,” said Aunt Etiquette;
    “At home if you have good manners, you see,
    You’ll also behave well in company.”

After dinner Uncle Education began to talk,

    “To promote good health is my vocation,
    I’m busy,” said Uncle Education;
    “Good English, too, now as a rule,
    I teach at home, abroad, in school;
    The hours pass on, I must be swift,
    I’ve many lessons to teach in thrift.”

The Bunnies whispered a little among themselves, for Uncle Education
used so many big words they could not understand all he said. Aunt
Etiquette spoke quietly to Polly Pick-It-Up, who whispered more than
the rest. She said,

    “When we are in company,
    We should listen respectfully.”

Just then Teddy On Time left the room without asking to be excused,
and he slammed the door after him.

[Illustration: bunny running]

Uncle Education then said,

    “There’s something often to me sings,
    We should have manners in little things;
    I’ve often said this thing before,
    We can learn to quietly close a door.”

[Illustration: two bunnies]

When Teddy On Time came back he walked in front of Uncle Education
who remarked quietly,

    “Say ‘EXCUSE ME’, lad or lass,
    When in front you have to pass.”

Polly Pick-It-Up was very bright and she said,

    “I can teach one lesson soon,
    Rise when any one enters the room.”

[Illustration: two bunnies]

Uncle Education said if we practise good manners every day we will
not need to think about manners particularly when visitors come. We
will just naturally be polite and have good manners always.

At this very minute the postman brought two letters.

One was for Uncle Education saying he was needed at once in school,
and the other was from Old Mother Bun saying that Father Bun would
call next day for Pretty Bunny and Healthy Bunny, for Healthy Bunny
had stayed on as Aunt Etiquette had politely asked him to.

Pretty Bunny sat down and cried out,

    “I can’t wear a clean dress, I haven’t another;
    I never told my misfortune to mother;
    Will Bunny Brag never, never come
    With my lost suit-case to take home?”

No one answered this for, of course, no one knew where Bunny Brag was.

Uncle Education shook hands with all his friends and said if he
chanced to meet Bunny Brag he would direct him to Aunt Etiquette’s
house. He said to Aunt Etiquette,

    “I think you are a near relation;
    Good bye, says Uncle Education.”

Aunt Etiquette bade him good bye; then Polly Pick-It-Up said,

    “I, too, must travel on my way;
    I thank you for a pleasant stay.”

Teddy On Time said,

    “I’ve learned some things I’ll not forget;
    Good bye, dear Old Aunt Etiquette.”

[Illustration: Here I Am, the Good Luck Bunny]

Then Pretty Bunny and Healthy Bunny and Aunt Etiquette were left
together, and Pretty Bunny said, “Won’t you please read us another
story, Aunt Etiquette?”

Aunt Etiquette said, “I will read you a short story about “The Good
Luck Bunny.”

“Once upon a time there was a Good Luck Bunny. She got up every
morning with a smiling face and was polite to every one.

    She always said she had better
    Answer every single letter;
    She travelled over and over again,
    And had good manners on the train;
    She always kept her bed-room neat,
    To enter it was quite a treat;
    At the table, at home, in school,
    Politeness was to her the rule.
    She met you with a smile quite sweet,
    And had good manners on the street,
    And though we thought her name was funny,
    We always called her “Good Luck Bunny.”

[Illustration: bunny fell]

One day Good Luck Bunny stubbed her toe and fell. She got up quickly
saying,

    “I will be brave, ’twill bring me luck,
    And that’s another name for PLUCK.”

As she did not cry a bit her eyes were bright and she looked down and
saw she had stubbed her toe on a bright, shining dollar, so she had
money enough to take a trip.”

At this very minute in the reading of the story, Healthy Bunny’s eyes
grew as big as tea-cups, and Pretty Bunny’s eyes grew as big as
saucers, for they all heard some one singing distinctly,

    ‘Ha, ha, ha, it is so funny,
    I am here, the Good Luck Bunny’.”

As the story ended, there stood the Good Luck Bunny on the door step.
She brought good luck to every one wherever she went, so they were
delighted to see her.

Next came Old Father and Mother Bun together.

Said Old Mother Bun,

    “I wish to thank Aunt Etiquette
    For care of Pretty Bunny;
    To-day I brought Aunt Etiquette
    A little pot of honey.”

At this very minute Old Mother Bun looked at Pretty Bunny’s soiled
dress. She said,

    “Pretty Bunny, right now, I guess,
    You had better go and change your dress.”

Pretty Bunny started up stairs. When she got to the top step of the
stair-case, she did not know what to do, for, of course, she had no
clean dress to put on.

There were only Bunny Boy’s clothes in the suit-case.

The Good Luck Bunny followed her and whispered,

    “Now please don’t cry, have a little pluck,
    I’ve really come to bring Good Luck.”

She slipped a little key round Pretty Bunny’s neck and scampered down
stairs.

At that minute Pretty Bunny got up and went into her room. She looked
out the window and what should she see but Bunny Brag coming that way
with the long lost suit-case.

The Good Luck Bunny had given her the key.

Pretty Bunny ran out the back door and met him and they were glad,
indeed, to exchange suit-cases. He could not help bragging a little
so he said,

    “My clothes are better any way
    Than yours, so I will say good day.”

Off he went.

Back into the house crept Pretty Bunny and put on a fresh dress and
sun-bonnet, and to this day Old Mother Bun does not know why Pretty
Bunny was so long changing her dress.

At last the time came to say good bye, and the visitors got in the
buggy and started off, when Pretty Bunny said,

“Oh, Mother Bun, I must go back, I forgot something.”

So they stopped and let Pretty Bunny go back.

She ran up to the mirror and cried,

    “I almost forgot you, that was funny,
    Good bye, good bye, Looking-Glass Bunny.”

She smiled and the Looking-Glass Bunny smiled back saying,

    “Whenever you want me I will come
    To your own mirror, now at home.”

Next, Pretty Bunny kissed Aunt Etiquette on both cheeks, saying,

[Illustration: bunnies in horse cart]

    “I’ve had a good time, I’ll not forget
    Lessons I learned from Aunt Etiquette.”

Next she peeped into her bed-room and a voice greeted her,

    “I’m Bed-Room Bunny, I’m glad you’ve come;
    I will meet you really again at home.”

Pretty Bunny shouted,

    “I am so happy, I can’t tell why,
    Bed-Room Bunny, good bye, good bye.”

Next she ran out, and turning, called to Shadow Bunny,

    “I love you better than shining money,
    Good bye, good bye, dear Shadow Bunny.”

The Shadow Bunny replied,

    “I make friends with every one,
    But most of all with the shining sun.”

Then Pretty Bunny called,

    “Echo Bunny why, oh why, oh why,
    Do I not find you? Good bye, good bye.”

Echo Bunny did not appear but called, “Good bye.”

Pretty Bunny climbed into the buggy and they rode merrily homeward.

The very first question Old Father Bun asked when they got home and
sat round the fire was,

    “Will some one tell me now who dares,
    Who went ‘pitter, patter’ on the stairs?”

    Old Mother Bun took up her work basket
    And said, “My dear, I forgot to ask it.”

    Healthy Bunny said, “I regret
    I never asked Aunt Etiquette.”

    PRETTY BUNNY SAID, WITH A LAUGH SO FUNNY,
    “I THINK IT WAS THE ECHO BUNNY.”




  Transcriber’s Notes

  pg 66 Changed: The Bunnes liked this story so well
             to: The Bunnies liked this story so well

  pg 75 Changed: I thing it was this way
             to: I think it was this way

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK POLITE BUNNY ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
